who's to say how the perfect cover
coffee should be made the same coffee
beans can produce different flavors and
strengths depending on how the coffee is
ground and how it is prepared David
Higgins of copy specialist 8 Joe Higgins
explains so we've got three different
grinds of coffee all these are the same
type of coffee but they will all be
quite different in flavor and being made
in all these different types of coffee
maker the first one here is a is a quite
a coarse grind it's quite loose it's not
too soft or sticky and this one is used
for a cavity air or sometimes called a
French press or a plunger pot the reason
we have to use a coarser grind is
because the filter here is a metal field
has much larger holes and you don't want
anything to go through the filter into
the into your coffee cup so because of
being course obviously you'll get a more
gentle infusion as the water comes into
contact with the grounds it's only the
actual act of plunging the coffee at the
end which gives the the coffee that sort
of final burst of strength as it were
and prevents you when you're pouring out
prevention getting any grounds into your
cup
moving on to this middle one this is a
much finer grind but it's still quite
grainy when you rub it between your
fingers and this one is used for the
stovetop espresso or the mocker
Express's is called you get a much more
intense flavor because the clown is
going this central area here and that's
compacted into quite a small space and
when you put the water in the bottom and
place this on the stove it heats up and
the water is forced up through the
grounds are quite high pressure into the
top so you get a kind of consistency
rather like you would from a real
espresso machine a much denser more
powerful flavor
the finest one I have here is this one
which is a little bit softer you can
still feel some graininess in there but
it's not it's not as loose as the other
two is just clumps together very
slightly and that you'd use in a in a
filter paper either a manual version
like this one or of course an electric
ones where the paper will obviously
prevent any of the grounds getting
through into the jug below and because
the grounds are finer you get a much
larger surface area of the coffee coming
into contact with the water and it makes
a more intense cup slightly stronger and
a bit richer than the cavity air
so even though you've used the exact
same coffee you've ground it in three
different ways you've made it in three
different ways and each coffee will will
taste quite different people often ask
me what's the best way to make coffee
and I always say well the best way to
make coffee is the way you like it best
because it's a very personal thing
you